Hey guys! So, in this video we're going to
talk about why you may want to use Version
Control. I'm going to give you an overview
of how we use it, ask you to follow us on
GitHub, where to find the course repositories,
and what's different about how you may use
it. So, what is it? What is this Version Control
Log? Well, let's take a little look around.
Let's start off by going to say GitHub's website.
GitHub is just one of many different version
control systems, so here is me on GitHub,
and this is telling you all of the different
projects I've contributed to and this little
chart that tells you the density of contributions
by day, so it's like a heat map, which is
pretty cool! Alright, so what is the point
of Version Control and how do we use it? Well,
maybe we start with SourceTree, which is the
program that we use for Version Control. Well,
I'm going to open up, let's say, Zombie Runner.
Now, it's a bit of a face full you're going
to get here, but let me talk you through bit
by bit. OK, so if we start here with what
we call the Master Branch, and we can ignore
this stuff on the left, you can basically
ignore the stuff on the bottom for now. I
started off with a pretty much empty Unity
project here, and then, what happened is I
added in a video that just had very little
in it, and then, I created a terrain, we brought
in all this stuff, terrain assets, etc. and
it goes on. So, every single video I created
for that last section I committed those changes
to a GitHub snapshot. So, these are like backups,
but named backups, if you like, rather than
timed backups, which you would have with something
like Time Machine. You specifically take a
snapshot at a obvious point of change, either
something is going to change or you've had
some success or whatever, you'll get a feel
for when to commit to take these snapshots.
So, I just use the word commit. What does
that mean? Let's start to build the terminology
for Version Control. Here are some things
you'll hear me use. You'll hear me talk about
a Repo, it's short for repository. It's the
code for a whole project, so Zombie Runner,
for example, is a Repo. If you were to then
look over here into the Complete Unity Developer
organization... You don't need to do anything,
just listen to me. I'm going to be giving
you all these links and everything shortly.
You'll see that each section fits nicely,
and in our case into a repository. It's a
project in it's own right, it's a game in
it's own right, so basically one Repo, repository,
per game. Committing! What is Committing?
It's basically saving a local snapshot of
your project. So, that's where I've come along
and made some changes, like these changes
that are hanging on the end here, and like
I've written the word nasty into this text
file, for example, and those changes are just
waiting to be committed, i.e. to take a snapshot
into my local database. Now, you can do all
of this without any connection to the Internet.
You can take these wonderful snapshots and
safely roll your project back and go ah, I
wish I would have not gone down that path.
I wish I would have maybe done something different,
at this point. Well, you could Checkout, which
is the next term. At the bottom there it says
Checkout, which is where you load a local
snapshot of your project, so committing is
saving a snapshot of your project effectively.
And checking out is loading a snapshot, and
then, you've got the idea of pushing and pulling,
which is sending and receiving your whole
repository to a remote database. So, this
is a view of my local stuff, and then, where
we go over here to Zombie Runner, this is
the public version of the same thing and all
those same commits are here. And that's because
I pushed them to the Internet. OK, so you
can get more of a handle on this by just saying
maybe git. push, pull, commit, or something
into Google Images, and you'll get loads of
images. Some of them are more complex than
you need, some of them are probably simpler
than you need. Here is one example that is
reasonably good, you have your Local File
System, Your Local Work-Space on the right,
you add things, as you go, to an Index. Well,
I don't intend to spend a lot of time doing
that; if I'm making changes what I do at the
very end is I stage them like this, all of
them in one go. I'm basically saying, we want
to track every single file. Every change I've
made in this last working session, I want
to track it, so that's the adding. You then,
Commit as I've just talked about. If you want
to go back you Checkout, so that's like loading.
If you Push that's going to Remote, if you
fetch your Clone, that brings the remote back
to your local, and Pulling does something
different again. OK, so that's one example,
there are lots of other images you can look
at. I just want to give you an overview, at
this stage, that's the only purpose is just
to give you an overview of how this all works.
Alright, so there are the terms, if you need
them, refer back to this slide. So, your challenge
now is pretty simple. Sign up for GitHub,
if you haven't already, that's at GitHub.com,
and you will be a proper developer once you've
done that. Visit this link, which I've just
showed you, we'll go there in a second. Take
a look around the site, click through to me
and Brice, and then, follow us if you want
future updates. So, you come here, which is
the Complete Unity Developer link I just gave
you, to that link there. You'll see something
like this, and then, you can click through
to me or Brice and you just come down, and
if you're anonymous or public or it's your
account, see I'm logged in as me, so it doesn't
give me quite the same option, then you'll
have follow up at the top right here. And
if you click that, then you'll get some future
updates from me, you can control notifications,
etc. And that will give you some feeling of
how this system works, and once you've done
that, then we will talk about how you're going
to actually download our project state, as
another test of GitHub. So, pause the video,
go ahead, get yourself a GitHub account if
you haven't got one. Find that Repo at GitHub
forward slash Complete Unity Developer, take
a look around, and follow either Brice or
Me or both. Cool! Cool! Welcome back! So,
that's good! Hopefully you just literally
went to the URL we gave you, as an anonymous
browser like this, as an anonymous user you
signed up for GitHub, and then, once you signed
up for GitHub you would see it looking something
like this, if you're on the Complete Unity
Developer. And you may have noticed all these
different sections, and these are all the
sections of the course of course. So, spend
a few minutes taking a look around GitHub,
take a look at our different projects, the
different states of the projects, and in the
next video, I'm going to show you how you
can download our project state, at any particular
point in time, once you're inside it, but
also how we use GitHub rather, so that you
understand that. And then, we'll go on to
talk about how you are going to use it to
control your and manage your versions, in
your development, because if you're going
to be building anything serious, now I think
it's definitely worth you taking snapshots.
If nothing else as a backup, so that you can
go back in time if you want to. So, take a
look around, have a look at things like the
Branch Setting and the Commits here. I'll
show you how to use it all in a bit.